README.md, before:

# µVox

Is an open source smart power audio amplifier, released under CC-BY-SA License.
Powered by the Merus MA12070P Amplifier 🔊 & an ESP32 Pico µC. 

- Designed in Denmark 🇩🇰 - proudly challengeing the status quo of the wellestablished Danish Audio Industry. 

This repository contains the KiCAD PCB project files for µVox. **Requires KiCAD 6.0**

## Goals

- To provide a truly plug and play amplifier solution to **any** speaker. 
- Allow **anybody** have a truly open audio streaming solution.
- Let this platform be flexible enough to live up any, and all, expectations for a fully digital smart amplfier. 
- Don't let anyone be stuck with a unusable device, even late in its product lifecycle.  

## Hardware Features

µVox is the first of several designs in our portfolio. We're eager to release our platform, and have thus opted to release our first, and certainly most minimal design, as a standing invitation for the comminunity to come join our open audio-endeavours.
µVox features the essential hardware necessary, for anyone to get started with open audio, this includes: 

- Audio Amplifier IC (Merus MA12070P)
  - 2 x 80W (@ 10% THD) or 2 x 35W (@ 1% THD), @ DC 26V input.
  - Supply Voltage 7-26V.
  - Multilevel Class-D Switching technology for unparalleled power efficiency.
    
- ESP32 Pico V3-02 Microprocessor Core
  - 8MB Flash + 2MB PSRAM
  - Wifi (2.4 GHz) & Bluetooth connectivity.
  - Single ceramic chip antenna design. 
  - Unlimited possibilities, with regards to functionality. Your fantasy is the limit!

- Onboard RGB Neo-Pixels for user feedback.

- JST Connector for option U/I board
  - Volume Up / Down buttons. 
  - Power / function button, with push-and-hold to power feature.

- Power Protection Circuit
  - Reverse polarity protection.
  - Short circuit protection.

- All the essential DC-DC power regulation.

- Connector for external USB/UART bridge, for programming the µC. 


## Software Features

Officially supported by 'Euphonium', the most sophisticated open source embedded audio streaming platform we've ever seen, µVox is able to not only do classic A2DP Bluetooth Audio Streaming and native webradio streaming, but also native Spotify Connect (yes, you read that right!). All of this functionality is bundled with a web-interface, hosted directly on the ESP, such that µVox is a stand-alone all-in-one open source streaming platform. 
See, FeelFreeLinux' repository for more details: https://github.com/feelfreelinux/euphonium
'Euphonium' is under rapid development, and as such isn't quite product-mature (as of mid March '22), but we're in daily contact with FeelFreeLinux, updating oneanother with the latest features and bug-fixes.

## How to get involved!

Join our matrix-room! We update the ESP32-Audio community there regularly, and are always open to input, and or questions, there. 
https://matrix.to/#/#esp32_audio:matrix.org

## Where can i get one!?

We'll be back shortly with an official public sales chanel, soon as we're satisfied with the initial hardware. 
However if you're eager to get your hands on one NOW - reach out, and we might just consider you for our beta-tester team!

## As seen in!.. 

We're already involved with several companies, wanting to use the platform in their products.
We're happy to announce our collaboration with 'Lyd By Dissing', featured in their latest product 'STRØM' - an open source smart speaker. 
See: https://github.com/LydByDissing/stroem and https://stroem.readthedocs.io/en/latest/ for further details. 
And if you happen to speak danish, our article in the newspaper 'the engineer': https://ing.dk/artikel/saa-skal-bygges-ings-laesere-udvikler-helt-ny-open-source-hoejttaler-vaer-med-254857

Besides STRØM, we're also involved with Lennart Jarde' latest project. 
Coming from a background as a prestigious classical musician, and serious hi-fi tinkering, Lennart is now focussing on his magnum opus: 
http://ljweb.dk/Loudspeakers/project/project.html
Again, if you happen to speak danish: https://dmf.dk/news/lennart-jarde-et-todelt-liv

We have several more collaborations in the works, however none of which are public, just yet. Stay tuned!


![plot](./Renders/PCB_IRL.jpg)
![plot](./Renders/muvox_wip_front.png)
![plot](./Renders/muvox_wip_back.png)

Commit message:

Updated readme with new picture, fixed typo, and a latest project status update.

README.md, after:

# µVox

Is an open source smart power audio amplifier, released under CC-BY-SA License.
Powered by the Merus MA12070P Amplifier 🔊 & an ESP32 Pico µC. 

- Designed in Denmark 🇩🇰 - proudly challengeing the status quo of the wellestablished Danish Audio Industry. 

This repository contains the KiCAD PCB project files for µVox. **Requires KiCAD 6.0**

## Goals

- To provide a truly plug and play amplifier solution to **any** speaker. 
- Allow **anybody** have a truly open audio streaming solution.
- Let this platform be flexible enough to live up any, and all, expectations for a fully digital smart amplfier. 
- Don't let anyone be stuck with a unusable device, even late in its product lifecycle.  

## Hardware Features

µVox is the first of several designs in our portfolio. We're eager to release our platform, and have thus opted to release our first, and certainly most minimal design, as a standing invitation for the comminunity to come join our open audio-endeavours.
µVox features the essential hardware necessary, for anyone to get started with open audio, this includes: 

- Audio Amplifier IC (Merus MA12070P)
  - 2 x 80W (@ 10% THD) or 2 x 35W (@ 1% THD), @ DC 26V input.
  - Supply Voltage 7-26V.
  - Multilevel Class-D Switching technology for unparalleled power efficiency.
    
- ESP32 Pico V3-02 Microprocessor Core
  - 8MB Flash + 2MB PSRAM
  - Wifi (2.4 GHz) & Bluetooth connectivity.
  - Single ceramic chip antenna design. 
  - Unlimited possibilities, with regards to functionality. Your fantasy is the limit!

- Onboard RGB Neo-Pixels for user feedback.

- JST Connector for option U/I board
  - Volume Up / Down buttons. 
  - Power / function button, with push-and-hold to power feature.

- Power Protection Circuit
  - Reverse polarity protection.
  - Short circuit protection.

- All the essential DC-DC power regulation.

- Connector for external USB/UART bridge, for programming the µC. 


## Software Features

Officially supported by 'Euphonium', the most sophisticated open source embedded audio streaming platform we've ever seen, µVox is able to not only do classic A2DP Bluetooth Audio Streaming and native webradio streaming, but also native Spotify Connect (yes, you read that right!). All of this functionality is bundled with a web-interface, hosted directly on the ESP, such that µVox is a stand-alone all-in-one open source streaming platform. 
See, FeelFreeLinux' repository for more details: https://github.com/feelfreelinux/euphonium
'Euphonium' is under rapid development, and as such isn't quite product-mature (as of mid March '22), but we're in daily contact with FeelFreeLinux, updating oneanother with the latest features and bug-fixes.

## How to get involved!

Join our matrix-room! We update the ESP32-Audio community there regularly, and are always open to input, and or questions, there. 
https://matrix.to/#/#esp32_audio:matrix.org

## Where can i get one!?

We'll be back shortly with an official public sales channel, soon as we're satisfied with the initial hardware. 
However if you're eager to get your hands on one NOW - reach out, and we might just consider you for our beta-tester team!

## As seen in!.. 

We're already involved with several companies, wanting to use the platform in their products.
We're happy to announce our collaboration with 'Lyd By Dissing', featured in their latest product 'STRØM' - an open source smart speaker. 
See: https://github.com/LydByDissing/stroem and https://stroem.readthedocs.io/en/latest/ for further details. 
And if you happen to speak danish, our article in the newspaper 'the engineer': https://ing.dk/artikel/saa-skal-bygges-ings-laesere-udvikler-helt-ny-open-source-hoejttaler-vaer-med-254857

Besides STRØM, we're also involved with Lennart Jarde' latest project. 
Coming from a background as a prestigious classical musician, and serious hi-fi tinkering, Lennart is now focussing on his magnum opus: 
http://ljweb.dk/Loudspeakers/project/project.html
Again, if you happen to speak danish: https://dmf.dk/news/lennart-jarde-et-todelt-liv

We have several more collaborations in the works, however none of which are public, just yet. Stay tuned!

## Current status
**(Late Mar. '22)**
Latest prototype boards have arrived, and are seemingly working. However - we're facing serious difficulty getting the PICO-IC's soldered properly, and as a result have managed to get two boards working so far. These, however, are working nicely. We're currently trying to figure out, how we can improve on the soldering difficulties. 


![plot](./Renders/muvox_kicad_overlay.jpg)
![plot](./Renders/muvox_wip_front.png)
![plot](./Renders/muvox_wip_back.png)
![plot](./Renders/PCB_IRL.jpg)
